The Kouneli 
The Kouneli are a species of humanoid rabbits. They live in tribes, under the governance of an elder Kouneli, who passes the responsibility of leadership through his or her bloodline. Every spring, each tribe finds the largest Thistlethey can, dip it in a ceremonial basin of water ,and re-plant it in a ceremony known as “the rite”. This Thistle grows to massive proportions, and is said to protect the tribe from harm.
The Kouneli believe that they were just like the Kako, savage and evil, until they ate the Thistles. The Thistles, according to Kouneli tradition, belong to the Fovos, and are imbued with magical properties. They believe that the Thistles opened their eyes and made them intelligent, not like the animals.

The Kako
Meat-eating, monstrous rabbits, there’s very little known about the Kako.

The Kako are evil, tribal rabbits who dock their ears, wear their teeth to points, cover their fur with the blood of their enemies, who partake of flesh. Their minds have been twisted and undone for generations, and now there are none left who have the capacity for thought beyond survival. They are generally jet black or pure white, with a high occurrence of albinos with livid pink eyes.

The accursed rabbits continue to be fearfully powerful, and unwittingly protect The Blessing of Blood as the swarm through the dark forests of The Downs.


The Klosi (Monkeys)
Had strong magic, but were foolish and had their powers taken away from them by a High Fovos.

The only power they have left is the ability to spin things. They use this ability to power clockwork, and were the first to found cities and industrialize in The Age of Turmoil.

The Siranga (Moles)
The Siranga are Moles, who spend their days mining, in toil and sweat. They perhaps have the least contact with the High Fovos out of all of the Animalia.

Throughout history, they remain unconcerned with magic, aside from negotiating mining rights with the Fovos (who, it is generally accepted, are stewards of the earth). They tend to leave these negotiations to contact lawyers, primarily Asvos.


The Erpo (Foxes)
White foxes who live in the snowy mountain.
Late in The Age of Understanding, the young leader of The Kako, Kwaku, led his people to attack the Erpo, and the Erpo defeated them, causing the population of Kako to be decimated.
They took over the mountains in The Age of Turmoil, driving out The Peto. The Peto resent the Erpo for generations because of this.
Have powerful magic, perhaps the equal to The High Fovos. Detached and ethical.
They continually wage war against the Kako, keeping them from covering the whole earth.


The Sapila (Rats)
The Rat peoples who primarily live in the Forgotten Swamps west of The Warrens. Restless by nature, they consistently rebel against their High Fovos overlords. At the beginning of The Age of Turmoil, they were confined to the Forgotten Swamps, with enchanted statues hemming them in, as a consequence for yet another failed revolution. The High Fovos they angered wasn't allowed to kill them outright, since they are much loved by their Patron Fovos, but the punishment of permanent confinement was perhaps worse: the Sapila beat themselves bloody against the barrier, forever hoping that they could escape.

The Asvos (badgers)
Keeper of magical contracts . Impartial arbiters between the Fovos and the animals. Experts in magical law.

The Peto (Bats, rare)
The Peto are bats, who exist in small numbers on CA-5354. They lived in the mountains and foothills, until The Erpo drove them away. They wandered the world for a time, and then took to building wooden boats and learning the art of sailing. 
They harbor a deep hatred for The Erpo, for depriving them of their rightful homeland.

The Pura-Pura
Opossums are omnivorous, and this set them apart from other races like the @[The Kouneli]()(species:ca286ced-8d34-4020-a083-e5bf5b1c74e6)‌ and the @[The Azab]()(species:2e53e14b-8345-4295-8dd3-bf1607e9fec9)‌ during the time the animals were gaining sentience. Most Pura-Pura renounced hunting other creatures, after the @Adianoitos(species)‌ went extinct, and are generally herbivorous out of necessity. The Pura-Pura are especially sensitive to Metabolic bone diseases, caused by calcium deficiency. Opossums eat the skeletons of their prey for the calcium, so the herbivorous Pura-Pura are forced to secretly unearth the graves of their fellow @Animalia(ethnicity)‌ to eat their skeletons. Some members of the @Animalia(ethnicity)‌ attempt to prevent this with guards, hidden graves, or funeral pyres, but some embrace this unfortunate necessity, and bury their dead in shallow graves near the Pura-Pura settlements.
They live in small societies, small burrows near water in swamps and forests. As Marsupials, the mother plays a super important role in carrying the babies in her pouch and then on her back until they are big enough to fend for themselves a little more, so the society would likely be matriarchal. They are on reasonable terms with @[The Kouneli]()(species:ca286ced-8d34-4020-a083-e5bf5b1c74e6)‌, and use their ability to play dead to dissuade @The Kako(species)‌ when necessary. As nocturnal creatures, they are regarded with suspicion by the races that prefer daylight and stay solitary to avoid conflict.
Opossums have to consume enough calcium or die horribly, so the Pura-Pura that renounce meat will need calcium or they will die. It's not exciting, but the magic may be related to that in some way, summoning bones or locating skeletons.

The Cicak
The Cicak are cave-dwelling gecko crystal farmers who use their skills climbing the walls to change the drips and flows of water through the rock and grow beautiful natural works of art (and scientific resources) over generations. Their crystals and the dark are somewhat sacred to them.

The High Fovos
The most powerful and wicked of @[The Fovos]()(species:7f5ad8ef-77fa-4fb6-bd65-fefa9120ff3f)‌ . The High Fovos appear like well-dressed 18th century aristocrats, with powdered wigs and finery. The male High Fovos wear white wigs, and the female High Fovos wear pastel-colored wigs - pink, light violet, or blue.

After losing the war against the Animalia, the High Fovos lost the ability to determine their own appearance, and exploded into horrific amalgams of living dark magic, bone, and flesh.

Almost all magic of immense power comes from The High Fovos.

High Fovos use living beings as playthings, tormenting and deceiving The Low Fovos and Animalia alike.

The male High Fovos tend to be restless and high-strung, intent on sucking the marrow out of the universe. They constantly seek new stimulation and experiences, which becomes increasingly difficult as their immortal lives drag on. They will enter into a contract, and then do everything they can to make sure that the other party doesn't get what they want - or better, actually ends up worse off. They find mortality and regret to be some of the most perplexing and amusing subjects of study.

Female High Fovos are rarely seen by the Animalia. They tend to spend their time in excessive luxury and exquisite boredom. In fact, they seek out the pain of boredom and love nothing more than to wallow in the meaninglessness of their lives.


Others. 
There are many races and species that aren’t featured in Thistledown: A Tragedy of Blood. Here’s an overview of them:

The Azab (Mice, exterminated by the Fovos)
Adianoitos (Insects, thought to be extinct)
Skia (Monstrous birds)
The Lykos (Wolves)

Low Fovos not featured in Thistledown: A Tragedy of Blood
Dryads - Trees
The lifecycle of dryads: Dryads are born from trees, as they reach the end of their lifespan, they become new saplings and another dryad can be born from that tree.
Sylph - Air
Undine - Water
Salamanders - Fire
Pixies - Earth
Gnomes - Earth
Brownies - Earth, very responsible and often found caring for a house or homestead.
Golem - Earth, very passive.
Banshee - Air, A corrupted sylph.
Sidhe - Fair Folk, attracted to beauty.
Nox - Darkness.

