So, your kids fight a lot. 

Ours do, too!
We used to go running to their room to arbitrate, working out who did what to whom, who was stretching the truth, you instigated the fight. It was exhausting.
Oh, the fights were getting worse, despite our best diplomatic efforts.
Then we figured it out: most kids don’t have enough free play.
Most kids don’t have a chance to play, fight, and practice interpersonal conflict. Most children are growing up fragile, and in need to authority figures to arbitrate their disputes, because they have no idea how to do it themselves. You see more and more instances of college students appealing to administration to help arbitrate conflict, and going to therapists to help them cope with out-of-control feelings. They have little practice regulating themselves, and navigating relationships, because there was always, always an adult present to help them.

So, what do we do? As long as they aren’t biting each other, we leave them alone. If they come out and complain about the other one being mean, we tell them to deal with it themselves. Sometimes we’ll give them advice about how to deal with their sibling, but it is their responsibility to communicate with their sibling, and navigate their rocky relationship.

After a few weeks, they fight a lot less, the fights are less intense, they play together a LOT more, and we don’t have to deal with an endless stream of tattling and complaints.

Oh, and our children have a chance to grow up to be competent young people who can handle conflict themselves, without running to an authority figure at the first sign of trouble.

We’re pretty happy with it. This is “lazy parenting” at its best: We do less work, and our kids have better lives as a result.

If you’d like to cultivate this quality in your kids, here are some thoughts:
1. We will intervene if there’s actual physical conflict: if hitting is happening, we’ll step in and dole out the time-outs. 
2. Sometimes coach your kids on healthy conflict. If one of our kids comes out to tattle, we’ll remind them to talk about their feelings with their sibling, to try to be patient, to give the other the benefit of the doubt. We’ll give them advice, but it’s still their responsibility to deal with the conflict.
3. LEAVE THEM ALONE. Seriously. There will be loud screaming. There will be wailing and gnashing of teeth. If they’re not hurting each other or breaking things, let them sort it out on their own. 


