Social Media for Jr. High kids is the new smoking.

Last month, I bought my pre-teen daughter a carton of cigarettes.

She’s been begging me for them, her friends all smoke like chimneys, and I’m pretty sure it will help with her anxiety. It’s a tough time of life, we should be helping her out as much as possible. Nicotine is really handy for dealing with the stresses of the teenage years - it always chills me out.

I tried to delay it as much as possible, but it’s just impossible to delay these days. Kids only socialize on smoke breaks; everyone is puffing 24-7, so I’m afraid my daughter will feel like an outcast; besides, I can’t help but light up myself, so who am I to tell her not to smoke?

She’s been smoking steadily ever since, and I’ve kept her well supplied. It’s started encroaching on our lives, a bit, but it’s not so bad. She’ll have a quiet few hours of smoking after dinner, but that’s OK - I can get the dishes done and sneak a quick smoke myself. 
She smokes in the bathroom, smokes in the hallways at school, she’s lighting a few cigarette every few minutes now, just using one to light the next. She’s started lighting up during dinner, which I don’t really like, but I don’t know if I should say something. I don’t want her to think I disapprove, she gets really sensitive about it, and then she just smokes more.

She takes her cigarettes into the bedroom - she says only because she needs a smoke to wake up properly in the morning, but I smell smoke coming out from under her door at 1:00 in the morning when I’m going to the bathroom, so I’m a little concerned about her not getting enough sleep. But what are you going to do - she needs them to wake up, after all. Maybe it’s OK if she smokes sometimes during the night, I don’t know.

She’s been coughing a lot lately, and her teeth are looking pretty bad - but everyone looks that way these days, and I wouldn’t want her to stick out. Everywhere people go, they’re lighting up instead of talking with each other, lighting up whenever they’re board. 

I know, I know - it’s going to shorten her life and make her sad and unhealthy in the short term. She’s already completely hooked, and I’m insuring that she’ll need cigarettes as an anxiety crutch well into her shortened adulthood. 

I’d prefer that to telling my child ‘no’, or risking social stigma. I’d prefer that to re-examining my own behavior, and making decisions about my family. Really, she can do whatever she wants, I’ll just hope and prey that she’ll be an outlier, that she will be one of the lucky ones who don’t die from this habit.

Excuse me, I gotta take a quick break.

—
Read up on the effects of social media on young girls.

