The burden of responsibility

“After all, there were cases on record of death from aspirin. A man might take the first aspirin of his life and die of it! By that reasoning it became impossible to treat anyone. By that reasoning all the daily advantages of medicine would have to be sacrificed.

It is a universal law: everyone who _acts_ breeds both good and evil. With some it’s more good, with others more evil.”  –Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, _Cancer Ward_.

It’s a terrifying truth that we can’t know what the ultimate outcome of our choices will be. Hitler had parents. Faltering steps towards a better world can have disastrous, fatal consequences. 
We can hurt people, scare people, accidentally change lives and shape fortunes. We can act in well-meaning ignorance and live in regret.
Our lives, through apparently no fault of our own, can be a net negative.

Sometimes it just seems safer to do nothing.

We can work, learn, grow our understanding of the world, and still be wrong. We can base our worldview on lies. We can give advice, and be wrong. We can lead people down wrong paths, and not know it.

Sometimes it seems like “first, do no harm” is a good philosophy for everyone.

But how do we know if we’re harming someone? How do we know how they will react to our work? We cannot dictate the response that others will have to our work. Will they follow our advice? Will they have a dangerous reaction to the words we write?

Is any of that our fault? 

If we believe that we have no responsibility, that people believe what they want to believe, that people make their own choices, that we don’t have any responsibility to the people we serve…well, that’s a world we don’t want to live in. Cigarettes, when used as intended, create about 30% of cancer deaths. [https://naturalsociety.com/cigarettes-behind-30-percent-cancer-deaths-1948/][1] Do we all feel OK with that? Is that what we want our world to be like?

If we believe that we have ultimate responsibility, that every reaction of person who every interacts with us and our work must be taken into account…we’ll never do anything. We’ll be trapped, paralyzed with all of the infinite, horrible possibilities.


I feel like we have to take as much responsibility as we can, while still taking action for the good of others. We try to breed more good than bad. Hopefully a lot more good.

It’s a terrifying responsibility. 

So, how much responsibility should we take? How complicit are we?



[1]:	https://naturalsociety.com/cigarettes-behind-30-percent-cancer-deaths-1948/