“More people die from the flu every year.” 51,000

I don't know why people are so worried about breast cancer, twice as many people die from the flu every year, and we're not freaking out about that. 

I don’t know why people care about suicide so much. More people die from the flu every year.

I don’t know why we’re so concerned about firearm safety, more people die from the flu every year.

I don’t know why we’re so worried about alcoholism. More people die from the flu every year.

Why the heck are we wasting so much time on Parkinson’s Disease? More people die from the flu every year, why don’t we worry about that instead?

It’s ridiculous that we have a whole infrastructure and pepper spray and defensive martial arts. What are we panicking about? More than twice as many people die from the flu than from assault. Why don’t we panic about the flu?

Heroin doesn’t seem to be a problem at all, because more people die from the flu every year.

Actually, drug overdosing isn’t really a thing, not substantially. More people die from the flu every year. Why don’t we have a war against flu?

Why are we worried about people who have kidney failure? Way more people die from the flu.

Honestly, the next time someone’s facing a natural disaster, we need to tell them to stop panicking. Way more people die from the flu, after all.

HIV? Way less dangerous than the flu.
Malaria? Yeah, when was the last time Bill Gates devoted money to fight the flu? It’s way more deadly. 

Guinea-worms? Why did we work so hard to get rid of them? They caused way fewer deaths than the flu. What a panicky overreaction. Eliminating Guinea-worms cost us lots of money, after all. How much money did we spend on the flu during that time?

Why do we buy smoke detectors? Flu claims more lives than fires.

Why do we spend so much time thinking about terrorism and armed conflict? Flu kills more than both combined.

Why do we spend so much time and energy trying to feed people who are starving? Who know that flu claims so many more people than starvation. Let them starve! We’ve got the flu to beat!

Please, don’t concern yourself with driving safely, don’t do up that seatbelt until we’ve dealt with the flu. Flu kills way more people than traffic accidents.

Lung cancer? Smoke away, the flu is more likely to kill you anyway.

My wife had a lymphoma. We didn’t know at the time that the true killer was flu. We should have worked to get treatment for the flu, since that kills more people.

Drug use, alcohol use, epilepsy, and war - unimportant when compared to the vast, consuming monster who is silently decimating the population. Infant death, poisoning, drowning, violence and Tuberculosis - none of them matter until we’ve figured out how to deal with the terror, the all-consuming beast that is the flu.

