_journal

## Apr 19, 2021 3:29 PM

How am I feeling today?

Tired and discouraged.

What's weighing on me?

Lillian's sleep schedule making it so I can't play Monster Hunter at night, for some reason.

Why?

Doesn't feel fair that I spend all day working and cleaning, and the hour or two that I have at night to myself is taken up with backbreaking bouncing and a thrashing, screaming child.

Why do you expect taking care of Lillian to be fair?

I don't, I just get really frustrated when I'm obsessed with something and there's no room in life for it. I also feel like I might let my friends down when we play the game, so it feels like more than just something fun that I want to do. Lillian staying up is making it more likely that I'll be incompetent and let them down. I'm also feeling like my memory is going to make this game harder, and if I can't be competent at the game I'll make it frustrating for everyone else. I don't want to feel inadequuate.

What about requesting that we wait a bit to play the game until you have more time?

Yeah, maybe. But I want to have time. I want to play the game, the baby is making that really hard.

They'll understand.

Yeah, but saying "I haven't been able to play the game because of the baby" feels like I'm admitting my life sucks. I don't want to complain, nor do I want to display my life as anything but awesome, basically.

Which is a lie, no one's life is completely awesome.

I know, I just want to be able to have children and still live life.

---

How am I feeling?

Been watching videos on color selection, and I'm feeling incompetent, like my dreams are not going to pan out because of my lack of skill.

But you've got some pretty solid skills. A ways to go, yes, but do you doubt that you can learn and grow?

No, I just am frustrated because I feel like I don't have enough time to learn and produce. I hate my life.

That's pretty serious. Why do you say that?

I spend all day every day doing stupid, mundane things. Childcare is mind-numbing. If I spend my day distracting myself (which just about makes child care bearable) then I end up numb and depressed. If I don't, then I'm frustrated out of my mind because I THINK too much.

Think about what?

My projects! Games! Things I really care about that I want to be doing, and most days I have little-to-no time to do! IT SUCKS.

But you're moving towards doing more of those things.

Yes, but childcare is even MORE frustrating, then! Because not only does it prevent me from doing things that I care about, it also prevents me from learning, practicing, and growing so that I can get a publishing contract, have great skills, etc. It prevents me from doing what I love on a day-to-day basis, AND it seriously hampers my ability to change the structure of my life so that I can do more of the things I love. And I love my children, it's not about that - but taking care of children is not meaningful to me, and it's mind-numbingly dull and frustrating.

But children are important.

Of course they are, pillock! But I can't hang my hat on children. I can't make my life about children.

What if you tried to rededicate yourself to your children?

The thing is, having a parent who is really obsessed (and I am obsessive) with you is not even a good childhood.

So you're afraid that you'll become too focused on the children.

Yes!

What would that look like?

---

How are you feeling?

Drained. I wish I could devote some brain power to monster hunter, but I've got little left over after putting lillian down twice at 11:30 at night.

That's understandable. At least you got some good work done.

Yeah, but I really want to get good at this game.

Why?

Because I want to be skilled when we play together.

So you can impress your friends?

I guess. Or at least have a blast by mastering something together.

Right. So you feel frustrated that you have no time to devote to video games.

Yeah, no time for anything.

So why do you want to look at porn?

I feel terrible.

Why?

Because it's been an awful day.

Why has it been an awful day? You got work done, some learning done, you spent time talking to your brother on the phone, you had some leasure time and good food. Why is today awful, may I ask?

Because taking care of Lillian makes it seem like the whole day's wasted.

Why is that?

Because I never am fully focused on anything. I live my day in a fog. I hate it.

That sounds unpleasant. Is there any way to make it better?

Porn.

But you know that doesn't really make it better, not for long. and it will make some things worse.

Yeah, but I have nothing else right now.

You could sleep.

Yeah, but I don't want to! I hate it!

Why?

Because I just have to wake up again tomorrow and start it all over again!

Can you think of one thing that would make it a little better, even a touch better?

***

Ok, you know what I mean. Your day-to-day life, make it less onerous?

I'd love to set my computer up to work on Marrowroot, but then I'm afraid that Lillian will hurt herself or have a dirty diaper on for too long if I get overfocused on my work.

Hmm, that sounds like a problem.

Yes, or I'll spend my whole day trying to work but miserable because I'm constantly interrupted.

Ok, so maybe no work. What else?

I don't know.