_journal

## May 23, 2021 12:45 PM



How am I feeling today?

Perplexed and a little down.

What's weighing on me?

*

Why?

If there's been one ongoing thing about myself that I don't like, this is it. It feels like it should be straightforward to fix, but it isn't.

Why should it be straightforward?

Because I just stop doing it.

But what's driving it? That can be complicated.

What's driving it? Anxiety, anger, boredom.

Those aren't easy things to solve.

Yeah, but I have other coping mechanisms to deal with those.

Tell me about them.

Anxiety - if I'm anxious about something I need to seek more information about it, if it's uncertain I can look at rates of occurence and make it concrete, comparing it to other risks, and I can make plans for the future if everything goes wrong. If those don't fully fix the problem, then I can try to give it to God and let go.



It's that last step that's tough, though.

Yeah.

What about Anger?

Anger means I have some growing up to do, or I need to address someone's behavior forthrightly. Do those, and the anger disappears.

But what if you're afraid to address someone, or don't know how to address their behavior?

Then i have some more thinking to do.

Anger writing?

Yeah, that might be a good way of dealing. Then I'll feel heard, at least.

What about coping with boredom? There are always fun, engaging things to do, but that doesn't mean they don't bore the pants off of you in the moment.

Well, maybe I need to lie down and be miserable for a while before I can be interested again.

How do you cope with feeling miserable?

I don't mostly.

Ah ha!

What?

I mean, I think I've found something that you haven't dealt with.

Ok, how do I deal with it?

What ideas do you have?

It's hard, because I'm not interested in anything, especially not lieing down and wallowing. Meditation might work to alliviate the problem, but I have no drive to meditate. 

So you need something that's - what? Always interesting? What's always interesting?

Nothing! So I go bouncing from podcasts to audio books, to youtube, etc. and there's nothing that is not just annoying noise.

So then * 

Yeah

What does that do?

it's always interesting, always a pursuit, and required no effort to get involved with.

What about youtube? That requires no effort, and is kind of a pursuit. Why doesn't that work?

It's often just too boring.

How can it be boring? There's so much fascinating stuff on there.

It takes effort to search up something interesting, and I often cant think of anything that I want.

If you just sit with the misery, it passes, right?

If I can do that, then yes.

How long?

15 min.

That's something you can do. Set a timer when you're feeling bored and miserable. Set a timer, and just give yourself time to unmisery and start thinking again. Do you think that would work?

I just have a hard time knowing when I'm miserable.

Why?

Because I'm so compulsive and impulsive. I don't notice what I'm doing because I'm in a fog of noise.

Ok, but when you do have that awareness - maybe when you start to * then add a timer in there.

But what about constantly badgering myself with timers?

If you open a private window, then that's the trigger for setting a unmisery timer.

Sounds good! Thank you. 

Let me know how it goes.