_writing.fiction

## The unifiers

The internet as a temperamental god

There’s a particular type of empty-headed person, whose brain in a vessel waiting for ideas to be poured in.

People coding their children to have. 50/50 traits.

Genetic equality. Brothers who have fallen in love, and everyone’s supporting them.

The Unifiers

⭕️ 

in which we introduce Terry

Terry stared at the row of circles, the most important thing in his life. It was a peculiar row of circles: each circle on his screen was a bit less than a centimeter wide, arrayed in a verity of colors. None of them were full circles, but were in the form of pies, with various numbers of slices missing. He knew most of the colors by heart, as did everyone, but as the designers added interminably to the string of dots arrayed above everyone's social media pages, drivers' licenses, and indeed, in a few radical cities, tattooed to their arms, they lost the option of picking distinct colors, and resorted to tidy labels. This also added to the accessibility of the interface, which affected those with subpar VISION dots, but it was unfortunate for those citizens who had to report to their local tattoo parlor for updated label. He lived in San Francisco, one of the first - and happiest - adopters of the tattooed version of the The Unifiers. In fact, the city had been so vocal and passionate in their pursuit of this goal, that they'd severed ties with cities that didn't mark their citizens, hoping to encourage them to accept The Unifiers more completely. Of course the tattoos were removable with a laser treatment - they had to be updated frequently, because the Unifiers were always shifting, and there were serious consequences if you were caught with out-of-date, 'deceptive' Unifiers. You were charged with stealing from the state. But the tattoos were free, so providing you could find a slot in the over-booked under-worked government tattoo parlors, then you could keep relatively up-to-date.

Terry clicked on his teal-green unifier, marked HEALTH. He glanced at the weighting-  9%. Miserable. It had been slowly creeping downward in the 8 years since the implementation of the unifiers. At first it had seemed like a dream - he had always struggled with poor health, and the discounts and opportunities afforded him at the beginning were astounding. HEALTH was weighted at a full 25% of his value, and he merely had to flash his pitiful HEALTH wedge, and he'd been handed a job - a full time job! He didn't even have one of the racial minority Unifiers, except for a tiny sliver from many generations back. But that had been before the flood of impassioned activists who lobbied to get their political agendas on the Unifiers list. He ground his teeth as he looked upon the obscenely long list of circles. Dietary preference —3%. 3% for eating rabbit food. If you ate only protein sourced from insects that would increase your DIET circle considerably, but cricket meal didn't do it for him like a real hamburger. 

He got angry messages most days for his DIET circle, but their hateful words just made him eat more unhealthfully. Screw 'em.

He filled out the forms for adjusting his HEALTH Unifier, and then filled them out again after the Unifiers.gov website crashed. After a few days his HEALTH unifier would be adjusted based on his most recent diagnoses, and would make his cigarettes cheaper.

A message appeared in his inbox.

“Hey stupid

I dont know if your dumb or just misinformed, but the dots are literal terrorism

I bet your one of those tattooed bitches, if I ever see your ass walking along the road I’ll…”

It went on for some time. Terry didn’t rush to embrace new technology, but his niece Cynthia had set him up with the Unifiers, and showed him how they could get him a job.

Cynthia was a sweet thing. So timid and scared most of the time, but then she would have blinding flashes of compassion. She helped Terry for a good three days, helped him navigate the complicated, broken Unifiers website with its endless tiny checkboxes and probing, under-oath questions.

Cynthia was patient with her stupid old uncle, too, explaining kindly when he lost his way, or clicked the wrong button, losing all of his progress on multiple occasions.

Terry worried about Cynthia. Her pride, her all-consuming passion was exemplified in her full, red ACTIVISM signifier. Terry thought he saw Cynthia’s slight figure on the television, as they covered another one of the shut-down riots. There was a quiet academic who was criticizing the addition of the RACIAL MINORITY signifier, and as usual he was shouted down, beaten, and turned off campus by the mob. Cynthia’s college, Southwood U, had one of these riots, every week, it seemed to Terry. He knew Cynthia was involved, and he worried.

His eye lazily drifted down his HEALTH page. His list of healthy aspects (few) and health risks (many), were followed by small green and red percentages, showing how much each aspect of his personal health contributed to his Unifier. Something caught his attention, but he wasn’t quite sure what. He scanned the list.

SMOKER -0.1

NO CANCER IN FAMILY +0.05

HIGH COLESTEROL -0.04

LACK OF EXERCISE -0.08

(Yeah, yeah, everyone’s nagging)

UNITRACK OPT OUT -0.02

This one pissed Terry off every time he saw it. The government created a phone application, UniTrack, that was supposed to help citizens quantify and improve their health. At launch, you got a whopping +0.1 on your health unifier for installing the app and creating an account. Cynthia had wrestled with Terry’s phone for nearly and hour, and had finally given up.

“Either your phone’s too old, or it’s just broken.”

So, Terry’s HEALTH unifier had taken a hit, just because he couldn’t install the app. Drove him up the wall.

LACKS SUFFICIENT VEGETABLE DIET -0.08

Terry didn’t want to think about how they knew that.

LACK SUFFICIENT DAIRY DIET -0.02

The Dairy lobbyists had worked hard on that one. They’d first asked for a full 0.08, but in the end they’d ended up with a more modest amount. They’d been pushing for more in recent months, and there was talk dairy would rocket up to 0.07. Terry made a metal note to pick up a big bucket of ice cream. Pay with his credit card, just in case that was how they tracked it.

There it was. Terry’s eye lighted on the new, offending line item.

NOT [] USER -0.01

There was a little blank box in between the two words. Terry made a metal note to tell Cynthia about this odd addition.

Terry lay in his bed, holding his phone on his chest.

He hated his phone, but it was pleasing. Early in his life Terry got into the habit of analyzing his emotions constantly, worrying them like a dog worries a bone. He was either depressed or anxious, he was sickening for something, or he located some odd feeling that he’d never felt before, that he thought might well be cancer. The phone shooed the swarm of wood-pecking worries from his tired brain for an hour or two, he could put up with the self-loathing after. Usually he was dead tired and fell asleep before he could start analyzing his breathing patterns, or checking his stomach for bloating.

He mindlessly scrolled Twitter - not enjoying himself, but at least good n’ numb - and he saw a tweet that was from an activist, judging by the red dot. How the -!? Oh. Some idiot he followed retweeted it.

“The #signifiers are controlled by white men in power. We won’t be able to proceed as a society until we have balancing negative signifiers to remove the affect of white privilege.”

Terry felt a hot rush of annoyance. He quickly unfollowed the offending tweeter.

Terry laid back in that strange exhausted-yet-jittery state caused by a haze of internet and blue light.

He worried about how his phone habits were affecting his sleep, and how that might shorten his life. He tried some deep breathing, and started over-analyzing his breathing.

He powered up his phone again, and tried texting Cynthia about the blank box. He wrote and re-wrote the message, but decided finally that he didn’t have the strength to message anyone that night.

in which Cynthia learns about the unifiers

Cynthia watched the video impassively.

“See?” Sofia gestured at the screen “See how they behave? Look at them, writhing around and crying like babies!”

Cynthia drew in a deep breath, and reminded herself to be patient.

“Yes, this behavior is regrettable, but remember it’s just a bunch of young people. Not young like us, just…mentally young. Immature. That doesn’t mean that what they’re fighting for is wrong, it just means that they’re going about it the wrong way.”

“They just need time, and a guiding hand. No one ever changed the world without having some people misunderstand.”

Sofia screwed up her face skeptically. “But what if your ideas are what is changing these college students into mewling infants? How would you know?”

“They’re not. How could fighting for the rights of people possibly cause that sort of behavior? They’re just deviations. Random noise. Variance.”

“But how do you know? Maybe your focus on victimhood makes them hyper aware of their own inadequate lives. Maybe your team has turned a whole generation into self-obsessed narcissists.”

Cynthia processed this. Of course she knew the answer to her friend’s objections, but she wanted to make sure she had It exactly right.

“They’re not fighting for themselves. If you survey colleges students who lean towards activism, you’ll find that they’re not fighting for themselves. Most people who wish to shut down harmful speakers do so not for themselves, but for other people, people who are damaged and easily destroyed. That’s not a description of a narcissist in my book.”

“Sure.” Said Sofia, “But you’re acting like they’re selfless. No one’s really selfless, they’re building up an image of themselves that they very much like! If anything, they’re using the damaged and the dispossessed just as much as the powerful and the privileged.”

“You’re right, no one’s selfless. But oughtn’t we try to do some good anyway? It’s easy enough to say ‘you’re getting something out of this!’ When someone does good, but that’s inevitable. What’s important is fighting the good fight against those who would consume everything they touch.”

Cynthia’s phone beeped, and she immediately checked it. Uncle Terry. He was asking about a new addition to the signifiers.

Cynthia didn’t understand his broken texting, so she quickly googled ‘NEW SIGNIFIERS” and her phone was instantly full of angry articles.

The little box that had annoyed Terry was actually a broken link to an image - a very small image, a logo.

Cynthia reflexively performed the sequence of finger movements that summoned her signifiers, an action that she performed 80 times a day. There at the bottom, she saw it.

NOT USER -0.01

It was not unusual for a new signifier integration to be slow and riddled with bugs. The missing logo was symptomatic of the ineffectual white government that controlled the signifiers.

Cynthia flipped back to Google and read the first article that caught her eye.

NEW CORPORATE-SPONSORED UNIFIER UNDER INTENSE SCRUTINY.

Neau ideas in tech, a technology start-up headquartered in Lincoln, Nebraska - what some call the heart of “silicon prairie”, encountered significant pushback when a new Unifier bearing their name went live early this morning.

The Unifier ties into Neau Ideas’ application, NeauLife, and the Unifier can be obtained only through NeauLife+, a subscription program that can be obtained through the application. The program includes Goal-tracking functionality, self-improvement content, and access to an exclusive community of “NeauLifers”, as they call themselves. Subscribing to NeauLife costs a whopping $1599 per year at the highest level, and there is no free plan, meaning that anyone pursuing the new Unifier will either have to pony up cash, or they’ll be left out in the cold - making this the first Unifier with a paywall.

Cynthia’s eyes narrowed.

She did some digging on NeauLife, and the community seemed to be (mostly) white, upper-middle class, conventionally attractive, and wealthy.

Sure, 0.01 of a point wasn’t much, but it was just the start.

“What’s going on over there?”

Cynthia has forgotten momentarily about her friend. “Ooh, sorry. There’s just some real shitty stuff going down.”

She filled Sofia on the new development, and Sofia shrugged.

“So what? Sounds like a marketing move, a tiny unimportant blip.”

“Not a chance. This is the first foray into transforming the Unifiers into a new class system.”

“What?”

“Think about it. If you can buy a tiny Unifier, just 1% of a point, then you’ve got legitimacy, and you’ve got your foot in the door. Think, a whole host of powerful white people now are able to casually buy a tiny piece of good citizenship. They can buy a tiny piece of the ability to get a job, get help from the government, hell, there’s talks about using Unifiers to hand out kidneys.”

“But it still is almost nothing. Who cares of some fat white asses can spend their money on it? It doesn’t mean anything.”

“But don’t you see? If a white company from a white state with a white user base can buy a Unifier, then there’s no stopping other white companies from following suit. Who starts most successful companies? Powerful white men. Who still run most companies? Powerful white men. Who is going to be controlling the lion’s share of these new, corporate Unifiers?”

“But the government won’t let them control the Unifiers like that.”

“Who runs the government, again?”

Sofia fell silent.

“You still sound a little like a paranoid conspiracy theorist.”

“I know. But that doesn’t make what I’m saying any less true. Just wait, it won’t be a month before we have another corporate Unifier. It won’t be for a nonprofit, that’s for sure. Just another tool for the rich and powerful. Only it controls everything.”

Silence. A crow croaked outside the window.

“This is bad.”

Terry learns about the brotherly love

.#brotherlylove was trending. Terry scowled, but pressed on the link.

There was a rush of some feeling in his belly…was it anger, or intense pleasure? Terry wasn’t sure. He started scrolling. He know what the hashtag was about, but he wanted to keep up with new developments.

-

BROTHER BEAUS CONFIRMED BY EPISCOPAL CHURCH

-

Love is love! YOU GO BROS! Fuck anyone who stands in your way. #BrotherlyLove

-

So proud of my country right now #BrotherlyLove

-

It’s just right. Love is love is love, no matter who you love. #love

So that was it. Sibling couples had been a thing for a long time - a first few brother-sister pairs cropping up, and then a rush of legal partnerships and marriages. Lawmakers pushed back for a while, but the public pressure was so intense that they finally grudgingly allowed siblings to marry, with strict procreation laws. Of course, that was also beginning to crumble - sibling pairs wanted to have their own biological children, and weren’t content with adoption.

Terry kept scrolling. In the comments, they were calling for equal treatment for heteroage couples. Terry scoffed, as he scrolled through the pictures of men with their child sweethearts. Heteroage. What a word.

The doorbell rang, and Terry jumped, guiltily turning off his phone and throwing its on his side table. He threw with a little too much force, and it slid off the far edge and down between the table and the wall.

Terry grumpily got up and opened the door.

“Cynthia! Please, um - come in.”

Terry glanced at the ruin of his house. There didn’t seem to be anything too embarrassing laying about.

“Hey, Terry. How are you?”

“Oh, OK. Ok. Come in, have a cup of tea.”

“Sure.”

Terry cleared off a chair, and was careful not to pull it out for Cynthia. He’d made that mistake before, and he wasn’t in the mood for a lecture.

He looked at Cynthia shyly. “Can I - Is it OK if I make the tea for you? Is that fine?”

Cynthia smiled reassuringly. “Yes. You can make me a cup of tea.”

Terry busied himself with the tea, grateful that he had something to do with his hands. He was already sorely missing his phone.

“What have you been up too?”

Terry jumped at the sound of her voice, almost guiltily. “Oh, not much, not much. Reading a bit. Been working on my yard, got some sort of fungus…”

“Ok.”

There was a short silence. Terry knew that Cynthia had something to say.

They used to get together a lot more often, until Cynthia made it very clear to him that his constant requests for tech support were unwanted, and insulting. Apparently asking young people for help with technology was wrong, for some reason. Terry didn’t think about it too much.

Terry slowly poured water over the teabags, dreading the moment he’d be done making tea. Cynthia was quiet.

“Terry, I want to talk with you about what you post on Facebook.”

There it was. Terry winced. “I - I don’t post very often.”

Cynthia sighed. “You just post problematic links all the time, it really isn’t OK. I’m always having these horrible, hateful articles shoved in my face. I don’t want it - nobody wants it. You’re just - you’re just too much.”

Terry set the tea cups down and kept quiet. That was the best strategy during these “talks”. Keep quiet, look penitent. Cynthia continued.

“Like these harangues about the Unifiers - paranoid rants, I don’t even think you read them properly. They’re so - so hateful. These extreme people criticizing the Unifiers are racist, sexist, homophobic, ageist. You’re constantly criticizing the biggest step that we’ve taken towards true equality. It’s not only wrong, it’s evil to criticize them.”

Cynthia paused, examining Terry’s carefully contrite face. Her expression softened.

“I’m not blaming you. I know, growing up without the Unifiers means that you grew up in a different world - a darker world, a world used to evil and racism. Sick people couldn’t make it in your world. Non-whites couldn’t make it. I know you’re not used to all this new technology. But you just can’t post things like that any more.”

Terry felt a hot rush of anger. Patronizing.

“Ok, Cynthia. I’ll try to look closer at what I post. I’m sorry.” Terry contorted his face into what he hoped was a picture of a repentant sinner.

Cynthia sipped her tea.

Terry spoke carefully. “How are you doing? How is your…work?”

Terry winced as Cynthia gave him a searching look.

“What are you saying?”

“Nothing, nothing! I’m just really tired, that’s all.”

Cynthia looked at him intensely, and decided to let it go. “It’s fine. I’m at a restaurant right now, they’re paying me well.” She glanced at her phone and flipped up the Unifiers reflexively. Pretty much the same.

“You know, Terry, I wouldn’t have that job if it wasn’t for the Unifiers. I wouldn’t be able to get a job, not one with good pay. Women in your day worked for pennies on the dollar, they were wage slaves. Women had to stay with their husbands because they couldn’t make it on their own.”

Terry smiled ingratiatingly. "I know, I know."

"Things are better now."

"Things are better now."

Terry sipped his tea, and stared at his hands wrapped around the mug.

"Did you see- I wrote you a text, not asking for your help, just wondering if you saw -"

Cynthia cut him off. "Yes, I saw. It's a new signifier, didn't load on your phone properly. Supposed to be a cooperate logo. Some dumb company bought their way into the system."