_writing.fiction

## Thistledown Cat Story

Cat story

Your bones get old.

I’m all alone.

Well, not all alone. My one companion is pretty quiet, that’s all.

I talk a lot more than he does, and I’m silent.

I know, it’s a paradox.

So much of our lives are paradoxical.

Paradoxes abound.

God has infinite mercy for us. He has infinite judgement.

He speaks loudly when we don’t need him, and is heartbreakingly silent when we need him most.

I speak to him. I speak only to him. It’s my job.

I’m a conduit. If you need something from God, I’ll take it to him. If you’re suffering, if you’re in pain, I’ll bring it to him.

God is with me, and he could be with you, too. Sounds like a bad sales pitch.

I don’t want to sell you on God. I’m not always that sold on him myself.

I haven’t heard from him in a long time.

I don’t know. I’ve suffered, and in the midst of the suffering I had no one, least of all God. I’m not allowed anyone else.

I’m a mortician. I pick up the corpses of lives, of dreams.

I bear them to the graveyard. I don’t know why I do it, except I get paid.

Pay me, I’ll haul your corpses away. I’ll clean up the blood and the brains, I’ll make like it never happened.

It won’t get rid of the stain.

But you can pretend it got rid of the stain, and that’s almost as good.

I pick fragment flowers to bring with me. Something about symbolism and about masking the smell of dead dreams.

I picked a bunch of flowers.

put flowers in central vase

When I got to town, I met window Clover. She’s strong in the face of her husband’s death, she expected to outlive him. He drank too much, and always wished that he could be a warrior, but his lungs were too weak.

WIDOW CLOVER

“Silent one, I seek a path to the Great, Good Fovos.”

nod

“I don’t understand. My burrow is collapsing. Hedge always used to reinforce it somehow, but now I don’t know what to do. But that’s not what I wanted to come to you about. See, last week I made a batch of cookies for dear Lavender, you know Lavender, she’s got four little ones, and she’s mated to…well, she’s mated to Thorn. Disgraceful man. I made the cookies and brought them around, and I almost talked to her, father. But I bit my tongue. She doesn’t need some busybody telling her how to live. I just don’t know what to do, I want - I want to pray for Lavender and her little babes. She’s just so sad all the time. Hedge drank, tha knows, he drank. But Thorn drinks and gets angry, and drinks some more. Hedge used to sleep when he drink, but Hedge yells and carries on. I hear noises, words I don’t like. I worry about Lavender, father. I worry. Could you pray for Lavender, please father? God needs to hear about her.”

nod

“Thank you father”

LAVENDER

“Silent one, I seek a path to the Great, Good Fovos.”

nod

“I just have quite a lot on my plate, father, Just too much. Four little ‘uns might not seem like much, but they’ve got me pullin’ my hair out.

I wanna ask forgiveness of you, father.”

points skyward

“I mean, I wanna ask forgiveness of God, father. I been snappin’ at my little ones. crys I been yellin’ at ‘em and I can’t seem to stop. I wake up and promise myself that I’m gonna treat ‘em proper today, but I always end up gettin’ real mad, father, I just feel such anger. I wanna ask God to take that anger away, and please forgive me for treatin’ ‘em improper.”

nod

“Thank you father.”

No one else out, so I’ll bring their prayers back into the forest, and bring them to God.

sits down

I’ll bring them fresh flowers tomorrow.

Choice: Pray for the people, or meditate?

Pray for: Widow Clover, Lavender, Thorn.

Widow Clover

That the widow Clover might reinforce her house properly, and that she might not worry unduly for Lavender.

Lavender

That she might cease her angry outburst, and see what’s in front of her.

Thorn

That he might lay off drinking and treat his family right.

God might have been there, but I certainly wasn’t sure about it.

I imitate God, and I keep quiet. My lips are sealed, may I only speak with the Almighty.

It’s all I can do. My old life, I’ve left behind.

Favorite season

Scene: tea shop

Cat is preparing his ingredients, and he wanders out into the forest before sunrise.

“Don’t pick those ones in the fall, father.”

Cat looks up in the trees, and sees a bird perched there.

“Didn’t your Momma teach you? They turn bright red in the autumn, and they’ll kill you dead.”

Cat looks away, and picks the leaves.

He brings them back to his booth, and Widow Clover shows up.

Widow Clover

Mornin’ father. It’s a fine mornin’, isn’t it? You are gonna start serving us tea, aren’t you? You’ll git more people with tea than with God, I’m afraid.

My house seems to have settled on not collapsing on me, at least for one more day.

The lark’s singin’, father. I think that’s a lark. Could you make mine less hot? I do tend to burn my mouth easy these days.

nod

I might set a while with my tea, if you don’t mind. Like to let it steep extra, you don’t put near enough leaves in.

makes a face

Oh, don’t give me that. Bitter is how I like it, don’t bother me if there’s bitterness.

shrug

Lavender and Thorn show up, with young ones in tow. Lavender is better dressed and proudly pregnant.

Thorn

Tea, fools’ bane for both of us.

Lavender

Lavender doesn’t come out of her house

Widow clover gossips with cat, tells him that Thorn lost his mind about the money he gave to lavender.

cat sneaks into the window

All the winter long

Lavender:

Father! No, father please leave. I don’t want -

she’s beat to hell. A beam of light catches her bruised and battered face

Please, please leave me. It’s what I want. It’s what I want.

Father, I…I sinned. Please, please my poor innocent-

I killed my baby, father. Can God forgive that?

I killed my baby, I didn’t - I shouldn’t have made Thorn so mad. I shouldn’t have taken the-

Father, I’ve sinned. I took your money, and I shouldn’t have. God gave me Thorn to provide for us. I been a bad wife, father.

….

God don’t fergive people like me.

cat climbs out the window, and runs deep into the forest, falls on his face at his stone

Every option for prayer is for Lavender.

cat wakes up in the same place

cat picks the red leaves and puts them in his pouch

he throws up on the ground, and dry heaves for a while

he returns to his stand and washes his mouth

Thorn shows up, and begins slowly moving toward the stand. He’s disheveled, and leaning on his friend. He’s had a tough night, and his friend pours him into a chair.

His friend walks up the booth.

Thunder:

G-give us some tea, I’ll take…um…

Thorn:

Fool’s bane. We’ll have Fool’s bane.

cat gestures towards the table, and thunder walks away

cat goes into his stall, and poisons the tea.

he brings out the tea, and places it on the table

but Thorn has slumped over on the table

Thunder embarrased grin

H-heh. He had a big night.

he doesn’t drink the tea. Cat waves at Thunder, and “yawns”

Thunder

Yeh, I had a big night, too. But he’ll want me here when we wakes up. I got a lot of enemies.

cat gives a despairing look at grim

Grim

Hey, uh, thunder- I’ll explain things to him. Keep an eye on him, like. He’ probably going to sleep ’til no-one anyhow

Thunder

Right, right you could protek’ him. Could git a bit of sleep, personally.

Grim

Of course.

thunder leaves

grim looks at cat

Grim

You can’t do it here.

cat twitches, then walks out to the table

Cat

Thorn.

thorn twitches

Cat

Bastard.

thorn sits up

Thorn:

Wha-

Cat

You’re a bastard son of nobody. You can’t provide, and you’re a drunk.

Thorn:

WHAT the HELL?

Cat

You’re a small-village failure who never went anywhere. You’re small. You’re so small. I don’t talk, but I wanted to tell you what an insect you are, bastard son of a bastard son.

thorn roars, and lunges drunkenly at cat

cat takes off through the forest, with thorn in pursuit

they get to his quiet clearing

thorn leaps for cat, but suddenly stops in shock

He stumbles back, and a bloody knife is revealed, drawing slowly out of his stomach

Thorn:

Ggh-

cat is client while thorn bleeds out

Prayer: you may pray for him

—-

cat, still silent, embraces lavender

she falls, crying on her knees

Lavender

I ken’t be forgiven’. I’m - I’m go glad he’s gone. He kilt our baby, but I’m so glad he’s gone father.

cat anoints her head with oil

Lavender

Don’t-

cat bows down before her, and washes her feet

Lavender

Please father, I can’t -

she cries while he dries her feet with his tail and anoints her feet with oil

he kneels at her feet, holds her hand, and points

Lavender:

I can’t- I can’ talk

cat looks her in the eyes, and points skyward

Lavender:

G-God - I’m s-orry for my sins.

They close their eyes for a moment

I’m sorry I wanted Thorn dead, an’ I’m sorry I - I let him hurt my babies. I love you, an’ wanna be good fer my young ‘uns. Help me. Help me.

cat stands, places his hand on her head

Lavender:

Father, I - will I see you again?

cat nods

Lavender:

Father, I wish’d I know your name.

cat smiles, and puts his hand on her shoulder

then he walks away

End

Voiceover

Flowers in vase

Conversations

Walk back

Prayer

Makes tea for guy daily

Can pray for hi after he dies

Tease poisonous plant

Collect leaves for tea