_notes

## Thoughts on making art

Miyazaki: Barrier of entry low, barrier to exit high and purifying.

No lazy lines. Don’t just outline a thing describe the surface and the form.

Comforting familiarity mixed with instinctive madness tends to work.

How you do anything is how you do everything.

It's not boring. You're not paying enough attention or you're getting impatient.

General ---> specific

Sketch ---> Volume ---> Details

Fast and instictual ---> Slow and Methodical

Beating the fear is Job #1.

Do 5 minutes, then at least you’ve beaten the fear for today. Now go to bed.

Warm up before you work. Work before you evaluate.

People will see and respect good work. Cheap tricks tend to stick out.

Good reference collection is half of drawing well.

Underpainting: Blue-cold. Yellow-swamp,desert. Purple- shadows. Good for warm colors later on.

Ground provides contrast.

Lines: same darkness, adjust hue with complimentary colors.

Practice empathy. If you get too creative you get incomprehensible. Bring people along for the ride, don't just feed your ego by showcasing how "out there" you are.

If you're not solving a problem, your creativity is probably about ego.

If you don't need to use them, long words are about ego.

Question like you're new.

Love your characters more than your ideas or ideology. Don't prostitute your characters to your ideology. Let them make their own choices. Let them take detours, stumble around, make mistakes.

Slow task switching. Absorb and digest what you’ve done and give the elephant time to straighten up and lean towards something else.

You really don’t know how something will look until you’ve put real time and effort into it. Everything looks like crap until it tips over into something beautiful. Of course sometimes it tips over into more crap. Put it away and start something else.

Think about form before surface texture.

Composition Studies > Value Studies > Color Studies > Reference Photos/collection > character design outside of the painting, sketch >

Write down your process

 