Give your children the gift of boredom.

We were respite houseparents once. We invited kids from struggling homes into our home for a few days a month, to give their parents a break from the kids, and - perhaps more importantly - give the kids a break from their struggling parents.
There was something to learn from the families we were assisting: some common traits that seemed to be shared by most of the struggling, often dysfunctional families who were a part of the program. One of the most striking things I observed: our respite kids were never bored.
I’m not saying they never felt boredom, but it seems that the moment they started to feel the pangs of boredom there was always a screen a distraction, something that was freely given to them to ease the pain of boredom. Some of the kids went from device to device: they’d step on one iPad, and their parents would immediately find the money to buy them another. Many of these parents seemed horrified by the prospect that their children would ever feel boredom - or at least they figured out a quick way to keep their kids from whining. 
We resolved to give the kids in our care the Gift of Boredom, for the few days per month that they were in our care.
We weren’t draconian about it: we had a TV and we had a Wii, and we allowed for their limited use. If the kids had cell phones, they could only use them on a limited basis, while we were around. But if it wasn’t “screen time”, if a kid came whining to us about how they were bored, we’d always reply the same way:
“That’s too bad.”
Many of the kids had no idea what to do with our response. It was clear that they were used to adults springing into action, saving them from Big Bad Boredom. We’d get a lot of blank, questioning stares.
Then they’d get miserable. They’d be unhappy, restless, dissatisfied. This distraction withdrawal would last about 10 minutes, although undoubtably to the kid it seemed like an eternity - then it would get really quiet.
A few quiet hours later, we’d check in on the kids, and she would be reading a book or creating a friendship bracelet, or he would be constructing something out of toilet paper tubes, or teaching himself how to shuffle cards.
They were quiet, calm, and exploring creative pursuits. They were playing, not just being entertained.
It was amazing.
If you feel like maybe your kids get too much screen time, if you would like them to read more, draw more, create more - you have to give them the amazing, irreplaceable gift of boredom.
Don’t try to get them to read, create, play - just make books available, stock up a shelf with scraps of cardboard and markers. Then lock of the devices for most of the day, and see what happens. If they complain, feel free to show all the sympathy in the world - just don’t fix it. Don’t reach for the easy solution. Don’t soothe their boredom with the oblivion of Disney Plus or mobile games.
Screens have a place for younger children (except for social media, which should have no place in a child’s life) but when kids are regularly given the gift of boredom, screens aren’t an expectation: movie night with the family seems like an exciting treat, instead of an entitlement. 
With this, I leave you with a short poem from the philosopher Roald Dahl:

“Go throw your TV set away,
And in its place you can install
A lovely bookshelf on the wall.
Then fill the shelves with lots of books,
Ignoring all the dirty looks,
The screams and yells, the bites and kicks,
And children hitting you with sticks-
Fear not, because we promise you
That, in about a week or two
Of having nothing else to do,
They'll now begin to feel the need
Of having something to read.
And once they start -- oh boy, oh boy!
You watch the slowly growing joy
That fills their hearts. They'll grow so keen
They'll wonder what they'd ever seen
In that ridiculous machine,
That nauseating, foul, unclean,
Repulsive television screen!
And later, each and every kid
Will love you more for what you did.”
