How to be happy all the time.

First, let’s define happiness: Happiness can mean a lot of things to a lot of people, so I’d like to define what I’m talking about. We’re not talking about fulfillment, a feeling of purpose, or self-respect for adaptation of responsibility. We’re talking about positive emotions - contentment, excitement, cheerfulness.
Here’s my plan for being happy at all times. Follow every step below, and in time you’ll be the happiest version of yourself.

Don’t work.
Most work is taxing, difficult, full of uncertainty, stressful, and it involves other people who are stupider than you are. Absolutely don’t work if you want to be happy. If you must work, then choose an unchallenging job with a lot of leisure time. Try to find a job that will make you a lot of money in a small amount of hours. The more hours you spend at work, the more likely you are to be unhappy during those hours.

Maximize solitary leisure time
Contrary to popular belief, friendships aren’t the best way to reliably generate happiness. Bringing a TV show is much more effective and consistent, and comes very cheaply. Autoplay is your friend, because you won’t want to allow any more time than necessary between the happiness infusions.

Have only online friends
Check social media and your e-mail constantly. People in real life can be boring, they have problems that might get you down, the might be rude or smelly. They might reject you, or insult you. Real life people are serious threats to happiness. People online are polished, cheerful, perfect, nice, photoshopped, and positive. If they’re boring, you don’t have to listen to them drone for two hours during dinner - just scroll down to a person who is not boring. If they’re ugly, swipe left. Happiness restored.

Drink
Drinking in sufficient quantity always reliably induces happiness, unless you pass out first. Passing out is fine, because it’s like going to sleep without those quiet minutes in bed which are usually filled with fears, anxieties, self-reflection, and all sorts of mental activities that might dampen your happiness.

Indulge
If you’re at a place where you can’t be watching TV, eat things containing fat, sugar, or chocolate. Buy a tub of fizzy candy, and slurp it through a straw. This will induce happiness and a burst of energy, which will fuel any unhappy activities that you might be forced to undertake.

Don’t get married
Marriage is a huge problem if you want to be happy at all times. Not only does marriage interfere with your ability to have solitary leisure time, but it also might interfere with your drinking, indulging, and your spouse might pressure you to work and make money, which would make you unhappy.
Also, spouses bring along a whole host of problems: they expect you to leave the house and get involved with the troublesome, unhappy world. They might pressure you to eat healthy, exercise, or engage in other anti-happiness activities. Also, spouses might get sick or die, which would be a serious happiness setback - you might never recover, and rarely feel happiness again. 
Spouses also reveal your shortcomings, and make it clear when you’re being selfish or lazy. They might make you feel guilt or shame about your happiness regimen. Never marry someone who happiness-shames you. In fact, don’t get involved in a relationship at all. It might feel like they will make you eternally happy at first, but that’s your biology lying to you: unhappiness comes to every relationship, and they can be very uncomfortable. Especially if you have children.

Don’t have kids!
Kids provide moments of happiness, but in between there is a lot of conflict and unhappiness. Children make you sacrifice - sacrifice your time, sacrifice your interests, sacrifice your money - happiness demands that you never sacrifice for other people. Let them make their own happiness. Children selfishly force you to grow and change, and that can be uncomfortable.

Set stupid goals
Set goals to indulge more. Set goals that are easy, cheap, and enjoyable. Don’t challenge yourself, and if one of your goals is a challenge, make sure it’s a self-indulgent challenge, like eating more chocolate, drinking more booze in the name of self-care. Throw in one challenging goal so you don’t feel disgusted with yourself, but ensure that you have a way out of that goal. “I’m going exercise more, but I’m not going to beat myself up about it if I don’t get it done.”
Alternately, you could set goals that are way, wayyy above your ability. When you don’t get even a bit close, you’ll be ablate admit that they were unrealistic, but you’ll be able to reason with yourself: “at least I was ambitious!” This will make you happy, and you won’t have to deal with the crushing, happiness-destroying feeling of being directionless.

Seek healing
If you are unhappy, it’s probably because you haven’t figured out what’s wrong with you. You need to heal yourself. Seek out therapists, shaman, counselors, drugs, whatever it takes to optimize your happiness. If you’re not happy, and can’t put your finger on why, it’s probably because you haven’t healed from all of the anti-happiness you’ve experienced.

Never change
You’re fine the way you are. Don’t ever grow or change. If you reflected on your failings, that could be uncomfortable. Remember, you’re perfect. If someone has a problem with you, tell them to keep their opinions to themselves.