Love thy temporal neighbor.
* Temporal = “relating to time”.
What is love?
Not an easy question. It’s not a feeling or thought. It’s not a simple wish for good - you can be extremely un-loving to someone while still wishing them well. There’s a level of sacrifice, but it’s not purely sacrifice. It’s also not a wish for short-term good - lying to someone about their drinking problem is more pleasant in the short term, but is not loving.
I think love is - roughly speaking - a commitment to the long-term good of the other, even at the expense of your own self-interest.
But if that’s our definition, then we have to ask the question: What does long-term mean?
---- 
I overheard someone talking, once. She explained how she couldn’t care too much about environmental issues, because she was going to have a home in heaven.
She was forgetting her neighbor - not perhaps her physical neighbor, who might not live to see the consequences, but her neighbors stretching off into the future. Her temporal neighbors, her neighbors next-door in time.
I’m not a card-carrying environmentalist - I don’t drive a Prius, and I don’t recycle often. But I recognize that we have an obligation to love our temporal neighbors as well as our physical neighbors. 
Many been well taken care of by our temporal neighbors - great-grandparents and neighbors we didn’t know whose sacrifices we still benefit from. There’s a long line of humans behind us who have worked and suffered to eventually build a way of life that benefits me. There’s nothing I can do to thank them, but I’m thankful for them. 
But environmentalism isn’t exactly what this article is about. Too often environmentally-focused folks act like loving their temporal neighbor is all at the expense of other people. Love has to be relentlessly focused on our own actions, otherwise it quickly becomes tyranny - trying to force other people to be loving is a fool’s errand. Loving your temporal neighbors with your own life is impossibly hard, to say nothing of loving your physical neighbors. Before you try to encourage or force someone else to be loving, you should perhaps consider if you’re as loving as you can be.
This beings us to the second kind of temporal neighbor, and perhaps the most important to understand: you are your own temporal neighbor.
Let me explain. You aren’t one person - you’re a multitude of people, stretching forwards and backwards in time. If you treat future versions of yourself as if they’re separate people, then you also have a commitment to the long-term good of them. That means your pleasure or comfort now can’t be at the expense of yourself in the future.
This helps you gain some perspective in the present. If you drinking now would give someone else a nasty hangover, you wouldn’t do it. Extend that same care to your future self.
I know there are times when I’ve been treated very poorly by my past self - where I didn’t look into the future and take care of my temporal neighbor. 
What are you doing that might hurt a future version of yourself? See that long line of selves, stretching moment-to-moment off into your future? They’re your neighbors, too. If you start to see them that way, you’ll start to make better choices. It’s easier to care for someone else than it is to care for ourselves.
Future you is your neighbor. Love thy temporal neighbor.