Living through tragedy (cancer)

I’ve been through cancer with my wife twice, and I’ve survived. I didn’t blow up my life, I didn’t develop a drinking problem, I didn’t smoke to deal with the anxiety, and I was there when my family needed me. I didn’t get so caught up in my pain that I was useless. Sonia went into remission, and I didn’t make it a bigger struggle by failing to manage myself well.
I consider this a success. It wasn’t easy.
Here are a few of the things I’ve learned about dealing with tragedy.

Things could get much worse.
People tend to say blandly optimistic things when you’re facing tragedy, usually because they don’t know what else to say.

“I’m sure everything is going to be fine.”
“Everything happens according to God’s plan.”
“Everything happens for a reason.”
“You’ll get through this.”

I’d like to put my arm around you, and tell you something that’s actually true: Things might get much worse. Be prepared. Don’t feed yourself on optimism - if you’re saying to yourself “It’s all going to be fine” over and over again, you’re never going to adequately deal with the tragedy in front of you.
I’m not suggesting that you fall prey to  catostophizing - assuming that the worst is going to happen.

But tell yourself the truth: The worst might happen. 
If you admit that the worst might happen, then you can make plans for the worst. You can really be grateful for the time you have. You won’t experience quite so much awful emotion. More on this below.

Tragedy feels like grief
When you’re going through tragedy, your body is already starting the morning process. You know, even if you refuse to think about it, that death might be waiting for your spouse. If you refuse to allow this grief, then you’ll turn to more and more distracting/numbing substances to keep the thoughts away. Don’t try to silence the grieving process. I remember I would lay down in the dark, listen to A Grief Observed, and cry buckets. I didn’t lose Sonia like C.S. Lewis lost his wife - but allowing myself to process the possibility of grief meant that I didn’t have to push troubling thoughts away all the time: I had already engaged with the most troubling thoughts, and they didn’t hold as much power afterwards.


Don’t sacrifice yourself.
Sonia and I were going to be living in the hospital for a full month while she got a stem cell transplant. I thought about myself keeping on a hospital couch for a whole month, feeling sorry for myself, and it was not a pretty sight. I would smell bad if I didn’t shower. I would be pretty worthless to Sonia. 
I have a strain of mother hen in me, and I knew if I wasn’t careful, I would spend all of my time waiting for a chance to help Sonia, and I would end up falling apart through neglect.
I made a plan for how I was going to exercise every day, shower, eat reasonably heathfully. I contacted several friends and asked if they could come out to Omaha several times to take me out to eat, or for a walk. I took time away from Sonia to read, nap, explore the hospital.
All of this felt incredibly selfish, because EVERYTHING that isn’t directly helping Sonia felt selfish at the time.
But when you’re facing tragedy, you have to take care of yourself first. You might think self-sacrifice is holy and unselfish, but in reality it end up eating you. Those who heavily sacrifice themselves end up being no help to anyone.
I resolved to take care of myself to the best of my ability, so I was ready, energetic, and competent when Sonia needed me. 
Sonia also tells me that one of the worst parts of being sick is watching how it destroys those around you: if you sacrifice yourself, then your spouse is watching the tragedy destroy you. You make it that much harder for them. Don’t destroy yourself. For their sake, take care of yourself.

Tell people how they can help
The first time Sonia had cancer, we were still in college. We were still figuring out adult independence, and we tried to ask for as little help as possible. We racked up credit card debt. We struggled.
The second time, we asked for help. My siblings did a GoFundMe page for us. Lots of people brought us food and sent us gift cards. We really didn’t have to worry about missing work, expenses, etc. 
 We had so many people thank us for telling us how they could help. As it turns out, there are lots of people who have a strong desire to help, but don’t know what to do. When you allow them to help you financially and in other ways, it’s not only helpful to you: it allows them to know that they’ve helped out. So often in the face of tragedy your friends and family feel helpless: allowing them to help you allows them to feel less helpless.

Resolve unresolved anxiety
This is perhaps the most important technique that I’ve learned: if you’re anxious about the future, it’s probably because there are some unresolved future possibilities that you haven’t dealt with.
I’ll warn you, what I advise below will probably make you feel like you’re betraying your spouse on some level. It’s an illogical feeling, but it still is a part of this process.
Think about what happens if your spouse dies. How will you still be OK? How will you financially survive? How will you take care of your kids? How will you meet potential new partners?
It sounds very cold and calculating, but it’s important to think about. Why? Your brain isn’t stupid. It knows that death is a possibility, and it keeps trying to get your attention with stress, anger, anxiety: it knows something might be coming that you’re not prepared for. 
Prepare a rough plan - it doesn’t have to be detailed - for how you’ll be OK if the worst happens. Keep asking yourself: how will I be OK even if the worst happens? How will my finances be OK? How will my career be OK?

Again, this might feel like a betrayal: We all tend to believe, illogically, that if we think about the worst that we’re making it more likely to happen. We’re not. We’re just making it more likely that we won’t feel crippling fear.

Iron out finances
Talk with your spouse. Make sure you know how you and your kids are going to eat if they die. This is a serious real fear, and until you face it you won’t be able to sleep well.

Admit that this will damage your relationship
This is rough, but important: Sonia and I knew that this would be a time where our relationship was seriously damaged. When she’s sick for a long period of time, when she’s taking care of herself, when she’s going through chemo, there’s not much left over for me. Instead of quietly resenting it, I admitted that I would have to be self-reliant for a while. We also committed to re-building our relationship after treatment. 
There’s a dangerous myth about relationships: If it were real love, it would be easy.
What crap. Real relationships require work. When we were going through tragedy, we weren’t really close. We had to rebuild afterwards. This is normal, and it’s OK. You’ll have to rebuild your relationship multiple times throughout a long-term marriage. Get comfortable with it. It’s not a bad sign. It’s kind of like opening a new chapter.


Have meaningful occupation
Have something meaningful to work on. Don’t just wait around for something to happen - challenge yourself, explore new hobbies, write, try to make something  new. When Sonia was sick, I was teaching myself how to code video games, something that I found intensely interesting and meaningful. We all need meaningful work to help us face suffering. Don’t merely fill the time, try to find meaningful work to help keep you sane.

Admit that death was already on the table.
Don’t get so focused on the death from cancer (or whatever tragedy you’re facing) that you forget that car accidents happen. Random event happen. Death is always a specter in the background, and it’s better if you admit this. It makes you more thankful for the time you have, more present. You’re less likely to be caught up in your head and your personal dramas and more likely to realize that you have to be there for your spouse in the only time that’s guaranteed: now. This moment. This second. It’s all we’ve really got for sure, and when you’re facing tragedy, you’re reminded of the great value of time.  Any time. Seconds. Minutes. Pieces of gold. 

Volentarily pick up the suffering



