Your kid’s Pokémon obsession makes him smarter.

Pokémon are /complicated/.
In my day, there were 151 Pokémon, and I did a pretty solid job memorizing them all. Kids /these days/ have over 800 Pokémon to learn.
I my day, Eevee could evolve into three different forms. Now he’s got 8 transformational possibilities. How do kids keep up with these ever-changing creatures?
Each of the 800+ Pokémon also had nearly endless levels of complexity. I’ll give you an example.

Meet Scrafty.

(Hello, Scrafty!)

Scrafty appears to be a lizard who doesn’t know about belts. He is always desperately trying to hold his pants up. Oh, he’s also the only Pokémon who wears clothes (Except for detective Pikachu, but he’s actually a human).
He evolves from Scraggy, a “shedding” Pokémon, which gives us some idea where the pants come from. It seems that Scraggy are so catastrophically bad at shedding, and it can’t manage to get its skin pants (a phrase I hope to never use again) off before it evolves. 
Anyway, back to Scrafty - Scrafty has entered his punk rock phase with a questionable mowhawk, and he’s kept his dead, half-discarded skin as a fashion choice. Yuck.
Now, quickly, memorize all this information: He evolves from Scraggy at level 39. He’s Dark/Fighting type, which means he is immune to Psychic attacks, unless he’s hit by an attack called Miracle Eye. His Dark attacks are super effective against Psychic and Ghost, but not very effective against fighting, dark, and fairy Pokémon. Watch out for fighting, bug, and fairy Pokémon, though: Their attacks hit Dark Pokémon really hard.
His fighting side introduces three different weaknesses, but one of them (Psychic) is cancelled out by his dark side. Handy! His fighting attacks hit five different types with super effective damage, and…

Now, come on, pay attention. This will be on the test. You’ve got 803 more to learn.
 ---
Slight segue into the world of obsession.
Kids are good at obsessing. They obsess about deep, relatively narrow topics. When I saw a paper about the cognitive benefits of children’s obsessions, I jumped at the chance to read it, because my kids easily get obsessed, and as a kid, I went from obsession to obsession (as an adult, too).

Turns out, children’s obsessions make them smarter. They learn more before going to school, and they learn everything on a deeper level.
When you see the insane complexity of chilldrens’ obsessions, it’s not hard to understand why this contributes to cognitive development: These subjects that children master are intensely complex.

These subjects, which the paper called conceptual interests, are certain set of interests that are somewhat narrow, often taxonomically organized, and deep in scope: Think dinosaurs, horses, and of course Pokémon. Conceptual interests are about the acquisition of knowledge and “fact-collecting”: understanding the difference between a Theropod and a Thyreophora; a Mew and a Mewtwo; a Quarter Horse and an Arabian.

Children often have encyclopedic knowledge of their current obsession, and there’s always deep set of rules, interactions, and classifications to learn.  It’s tremendously rewarding for children to acquire a deep understanding of a conceptual interest: it rewards them with an expertise  and depth of knowledge that most adults don’t have.  It makes them better at learning, and it enables a powerful force in your child’s life: motivated learning.

Sure, there’s value in being able to hunker down and learn boring stuff you don’t care about, but motivated learning helps reveal how wonderful learning is. Too many children learn in school that all learning is drudgery- buckling down and learning the Latin names of their favorite dinosaurs reminds them that learning can be intensely enjoyable.

This doesn’t mean let your children play video games or watch movies about their intense interests all day long - use your common sense - but don’t be concerned when they’re obsessed. Lean into it. Buy them a book about what they love. Help them learn more details about this thing they love. It will translate into a smarter, more capable child, better results and school, and a more competent, intelligent adulthood.  

…and if they ever challenge you to a game of Pokémon cards, be a gracious loser.