Man is not so much a problem-solving animal as a problem-creating one.

The great temptation of intellectuals: nothing-but-ism.

Misery has a tendency to rise to meet the means available for it’s alleviation. In other words, a supposed illness may increase in frequency as knowledge of its existence and the possibilities of its cure spread.

As humorist Jerome k Jerome pointed out long ago, you can persuade yourself into the symptomatology of a hundred diseases merely by reading a medical textbook; how much easier it is to do when the symptoms are explicitly in the mind!

Man is a thinking reed, as pascal once put it; it is therefore wrong to treat the prevalence of psychological disturbance as a natural, raw fact, shall we say like the prevalence of hypothyroidism; for the reflexivenees of man’s mentality means that factors such as imitation must be taken into account.

The expansion of psychiatric diagnosis leads to both overtreatment and under treatment. The genuinely disturbed get short shrift: those with chronic schizophrenia are left to moulder in the doorways, streets, and stations of large cities, while untold millions have their fluctuating preoccupations attended to with the kind of attention a overconcetned mother gives her spoiled child - with more or less the same results.

We fear to judge and appear censorious, as if there were nothing in between complete and constant moral latitudinarianism and Dickensian hypocracy. Since the lattter is now the only sin, it is best to make no judgement at all.

Suffering if any kind - even that which would once have been deemed by most as self-inflicted- is _ipso facto_ proof of victimhood.
Our philosophical motto is not _I think, therefore I am_ but _he suffers, therefore he’s a victim_.

To understand is to forgive all: therefore, if we forgive all, we understand all. We this put  ourselves in the position of the all-merciful diety, the very diety whose existence we often are at pains angrily to deny.

Foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds.

If no one is to be judged (because to judge is to judge harshly) then one is not oneself to be judged, even by oneself. This, in effect, means carte Blanche to do as you feel like, because all behavior is put on an equal moral footing: it is only to be _understood_.
This is why it is so common to hear people say “I’m learning to forgive myself”, usually under the guidance of a therapist.