_project.marrow

_writing.fiction

Explore all of the ways that suffering and privation can lead to meaning, see the meaninglessness of the High Fovos.

## Marrowroot Script

I struck you with blight and mildew;
I laid waste your gardens and your vineyards;
the locust devoured your fig trees and your olive trees;
yet you did not return to me,
says the Lord.



But you have turned justice into poison
and the fruit of righteousness into wormwood—

--

Amos is weeping.

Tears creating dark streaks.

He droops, sags like a sack. He grasps his arms, nails biting flesh, simple pain blotting out some knowledge of his interior.

There's something eating away at him.

He looks down at his hand, and it pulses with a flow of fluid not his own.

He reaches back and digs in his fur, feeling the many soft nubs poking through his skin, worming their way past his sparse fur, bodies pregnant with spores and death.

He tears at them, tears toadstools, hair, opossum skin. And he weeps.

Not for the pain, though. The pain has always been his birthright, pain was his inheritance. He people, his true family is born of bone, and blood, and pain. Painfolk. Deathfolk. Grave robbers, spat upon, hated. The pain doesn't bother him, but rather the vary softness of his affliction. The soft, tender, springy caps are a rebuke to him, a mockery. They embarrass him. By rights his jaw should hurt, growth pains. By rights his bones should ache from their strength and growth, not from the process of decomposition. When his death comes, his body should nourish those he loves: his will be a rotten carcass before his life-warmth have left his body, no good for anything.

Amos weeps. The softness, the softness-

---

Amos feels the roots, feels the spreading in his flesh. Feels the mycelium in his veins.

It talks to him, It doesn't speak, but it talks. It communicates. His foot? It can ttalk with his tail. Mycelium pathways are there. His lefft eye, the one that's slightly misaligned? It can conveerse with his molars, or his right kneecap.

It's all tthere. They're saying things to each other. Plotting Amos's downfall, no doubt. Their grand coup, overthrowing Amos and occupying his body.

They're talking.

They have a vision, they're seeing the dead island of Amos's corpse, so much good meat - so much feed.

Don't worry Amos, you're more _us_ than _you_  now anyway. Don't worry yourself.

Our tendrils are more numerous than your veins now, we counted. Don't worry, Amos.

Sleep well, Amos.

We grow our fruiting bodies out of yours, because we need to multiply, growo in numbers, continue our species...but don't worry, Amos. You shall be dead long before we ascend.

You shall be the vehicle of our ascension, you know. 

Just sleep now, you need your rest. We need you to keep living a while yet, keep chewing, keep digesting plant matter down into easily accessible bits for us. Good boy, Amos. Good boy. You don't need those, let us keep them for you. Rest well, Amos, you're a sleepy boy. Rest well, don't worry - you'll still be able to walk tomorrow. We'll leave your leg muscles in tact.

You might be a little stiff in the joints, is all. Damp will do that to you.

Rest.

---

Amos is in his warren, his family is at home. 

They're not his family, but they're something like a family. There's never anything more than them, anyway. 

Amos would kill for a chop, a slice of something meaty. His family are vegitible eaters. Bunnies.

Every two weeks, Amos is sent to quietly, quietly creep around to the bone yard. This is where dead Kako are piled, heaped up with brush and sweet-smelling plants. Left here to rot, too many to bury. There are three of them Amos killed last night, his hands tremble.

Amos pokes around until he finds a rib or two, maybe a jaw. His appitite's been terrible, that's when they send him up to do the deed. Fact that he's eating Kako hardly makes a difference to some, but it comforts his mother.

Amos takes the bones, ginds them with stones, scrapes the powedered shame into a bag.

Eh, it'll do. That's enough.

Amos seasons his food, strange salt that smells like - well, let's not talk about what it smells like.

Opossums sure _are_, aren't they momma?

Yes hon, it's in their nature. Can't live without theeir sinful habit.

_Well._

You said it.

The shakes go away for a while, Amos can eat again, he feels normal.

Well, as normal as he ever feels. Buys himself another week or two.

Then he's back to the boneyard, rummaging around.

Opossums. Just _strange_ folk, momma.

---



Amos is at home. He lives in a warm corner of his family warren, far enough away that his nocturnal nature doesn't bother his sun-loving family. He's hiding the sun streaming through the vent.
Sun streams through the broken toys scattered on the sill. Amos finds them at the mole pub where he helps, sweeps, keeps an ear out.

The roof the his room thumps as someone runs on the dirt above.

Now he's on night watch. He's always on night watch, it's something he takes pride in. He avoids his family much of the time, but takes his duty seriously. It's raining and dark. 

Amos is planted with something, which sprouts and grows in his corpse, driving back and destroying the blight.



